opt: add page (#2500)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/opt.md

# opt

> > LLVM .bc -> .bc modular optimizer and analysis printer. `opt` takes LLVM source files as input, runs the specified optimizations or analyses on it, and then outputs the optimized file or the analysis results.

Reviewer: This seems rather wordy. Can we make it more concise at all?

Also, what is meant by `.bc`?

Author: > This seems rather wordy. Can we make it more concise at all?

Ok. I will think on something else.

> Also, what is meant by .bc?

`.bc` is a bitcode file while `.ll` is a human-readable version of it.

Reviewer 2: Yea, this is a bit too long for a tldr page. How about - "A tool that takes LLVM source files and runs specified optimizations or analyses on them" ?

> - Run an optimization or an analysis in a bitcode file:

Reviewer: Perhaps

```suggestion
- Run an optimization or analysis on a bitcode file:
```

....will read better?

Also, can `file.bc` be `path/to/file.bc` please?

> `opt {{-passname}} {{path/to/file.bc}} -S -o {{file_opt.bc}}`

Reviewer 2: `-` of passname should be outside the tokens.

> - Print the Control Flow Graph of a function to a "dot" file:

Reviewer: Perhaps `Output` would be a better term than `Print` here if it's going to a file and not a terminal?

Also, can `file.bc` be `path/to/file.bc` please?

`opt {{-dot-cfg}} -S {{file.bc}} -disable-output`

> - Optimize the program with "-O2" and write its output to another file:

Reviewer: Perhaps we could specify what `-O2` actually does instead? How about this?

```suggestion
- Optimize the program at level 2 and output the result to another file:
```

Also, perhaps `file_opt.bc` can be `path/to/file_opt.bc` instead?

> `opt -O2 {{path/to/file.bc}} -S -o {{file_opt.bc}}`

Reviewer 2: path/to/output_file.bc
